---
title: Development Analysis Research Paper
date: 2018-02-09 07:20:00 -05:00
layout: post
---

<center>Development Analysis Research Paper</center>
<br>
&emsp;Canada is one of the world’s most economically developed nations, ranking 10th in terms of GDP (Gross domestic product) per capita in the world, coming in at $1.64 USD, and with a PPP (Purchasing power parity) of $1.764 trillion it is managing to provide excellent medical care, food, shelter, and clean water for the vast majority of its citizens. It has several really important industries, with the two most important being the logging and oil industries, followed by the automobile and aircraft industries, making it quite unique amongst developed countries for its reliance on the primary sector. These factors show that Canada is one of the most developed nations in the entire world.
<br>
&emsp;Canada uses a lot of energy, 7,600.32 kg, being representative of their very prosperous economy, managing to provide sufficient energy to the urban, suburban, and rural areas of the country. It is also the largest oil exporter to the United States and other nations, making it very important economically when it comes to energy, and more specifically oil. This shows that Canada is very important economically in terms of energy, more specifically the highly profitable oil field, helping justify the idea that Canada is quite an economically developed country. 
<br>
&emsp;Canada primarily has tertiary jobs and manufacturing jobs, a sign of a significantly developed country, with only 1.8% of the population engaged in agricultural work, and manufacturing mainly being limited in logging. Since Canada has moved forwards from an agrarian society in terms of development, to a more services based society instead of creating products, it has managed to educate its population to a point of 99% literacy, and has managed to provide safe, clean drinking water to almost all of its citizens, except for a handful of Native American communities, leading to a comfortable life for many Canadian citizens. All of this significant development is only possible in a nation that is well developed.
<br>
&emsp;Eighty percent of Canadians live in urban centers, with 34.3% (in Quebec) to 43.2% (in Ontario) of every urban center’s budget being for health care. This allows the 2.1 doctors per thousand people to care for Canadian citizens sufficiently, to the point where the crude death rate is only 7.2. This has produced a crude birth rate of 11.3, and a low natural increase rate (which is a positive sign of development) of 3.62, with an infant mortality rate of only 4.47. This has led to an average life expectancy of 82.14 years. This level of health in a nation’s population is only possible in a very developed and economically well off country.
<br>
&emsp;In Canada, there is also a very low incidence of disease, which is especially seen in the percentage of Canadians with the highly infectious sexually transmitted disease HIV/AIDS. Only 0.02% of Canadians have HIV/AIDS, which spreads very, very easily in undeveloped nations that lack proper protection and education on preventative measures. Aside from the low disease incidence rate, great medical care, high literacy rates, tertiary jobs, great education, and largely non-rural population centers, Canadians are also very well fed, and have, on average, good incomes. Canadians eat from 1,800 to 2,000 calories, which is how much an average person should be eating, so they aren’t having issues with getting fed, and they also, on average, make $76,000 CAD allowing them to live comfortable lives. Because of the great medical care, and good incomes allowing for the consumption of many goods and services, many Canadians have been born and lived into old age, being represented by the fact that 34% of Canadians are under 15, and 16.9% are over 65.
<br>
&emsp;When taking into account all of the statistics on Canada and interpreting them, one can see that Canada can easily be considered one of the world’s most developed nations. Canadians, on average, have really good incomes, work tertiary jobs in urban and suburban areas, live for many years, have a low death rate and have birth rate, increase their population slowly, have easy access to a lot of food, have good healthcare, leading to a low incidence of disease, and have good education, leading to an almost perfect literacy rate, which has further led to lots of scientific and technological advancement. If one has ever questioned whether Canada is developed in the modern age, then they need some good Canadian education.
